they say it takes six months to year to
start seeing seo results and you have to
invest hundreds if not thousands of
hours to see results but does it really
have to be that way hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to break
down how much time you really need to
invest in seo with the new website that
has no traffic
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
look
you don't need to do hundreds of
different things or spend hundreds if
not thousands of hours on seo to start
seeing results i'm not telling you
you're going to rank number one for
terms like credit cards by putting in
very little time but you can start
seeing results for keywords that aren't
as competitive or long tail key terms
and i'm going to break down what you
need to do to start for a new website to
start seeing results and you can do this
in a handful of hours each and every
single week when you're starting a new
website you need to be focused on
creating authority in your space this
means creating lots of content and
seeing how google will respond to
different topics that you approach
watch your rankings over time because if
you pop out content what you'll find is
you'll either rank well or it won't and
some topics do well and some don't and
when you start ranking higher with
keywords on certain topics write more
about those topics don't duplicate your
content so if you already had an article
in the beginner's guide to online
marketing don't write the ultimate guide
to online marketing for beginners
because that's pretty much the same
thing
and if you've been writing content
keywords related to a topic that you
haven't been able to rank for go and
focus on other topics that are working i
want you to look out for less
competitive long tail variations of head
term keywords that are too competitive
so when you don't rank for a keyword
right and you're just like hmm i tried
to create all this content not ranking
for it what i want you to do is go to
ubersuggest and put in that keyword and
when you click on the keyword ideas
report it'll show you other key terms
that are more longer tail that you could
potentially
target and create content around that
and see what happens and when you're on
ubersuggest another thing that i want
you to do is in the keyword ideas report
you have the ability to put in your
domain name on the right side and it'll
show you keywords that you could
potentially rank number one or on page
one for and this will filter the keyword
so that way you're focusing on the right
ones from day one by now once you've
implemented some of these steps you
should be getting some traffic and now i
want you to start using google search
console which funny enough connects with
uber suggests
now you don't need to do a lot of link
building but you need to see
what pieces of your content are getting
a lot of impressions and very little
clicks and what you want to do within
google search console is look at the
keywords that are getting a lot of
impressions and not enough clicks and
make sure you adapt your content to
include those keywords not just within
your content but within your title tag
and your meta description and by doing
that you're more likely to rank for some
of those keywords that
are getting tons of impressions but not
enough clicks assuming that they're
related to the content on your website
and the services or products that you
have to offer
a lot of people believe when you're
doing this process you need to
continually build a lot of links and
that's not necessarily the case if you
want to rank for long tail terms
remember these long tail terms really
add up and can drive a lot of traffic
and becoming great at content creation
should be your focus
so how much time does it take to do
these activities well content writing
should be at least four hours per week
just doing research and actually writing
in content
will get you to roughly far as we now
keyword research another two to three
hours a month and that'll get you all
the keywords you can be targeting and
you can even create lists of these
keywords within uber suggests and that's
a rough breakdown of where you can get
started now if you want a bonus tip on
where you should spend some extra time
i'd recommend going to ubersuggest
putting in your url and looking at the
site audit report
look if you have amazing content if you
have all these errors that prevent
google from crawling your website or
indexing pages how well do you think
you're going to rank
not well at all right because no matter
how great your content is they can't
crawl it or understand it or navigate
through your site in an efficient way
you're just not going to do that well
now this tip here in uber says when you
put in your url and you look at the site
audit report this will tell you all the
errors and what you need to fix and the
beautiful part is you don't have to do
this every week but just once a month
put in your url and look at all the
issues and look at the issues from top
to bottom because in uber says it breaks
down the
issues that are hurting your rankings
more than others that'll have the
biggest impact so in essence it's
breaking down the changes that you need
to make that'll give you the biggest
traffic increases that require the least
amount of work
and then you just want to go down that
list and do all of them and check it
once a month because as you publish new
piece of content sometimes doesn't
matter how good you are at marketing or
even seo
sometimes you just release new errors
accidentally and you want to just make
sure that your site is buttoned up and
you fix those and the site audit report
will help you and within uber suggests
you can also create a project and when
you create a project add the keywords
that you're trying to track and you want
to rank for and it'll track those
rankings for you and it'll automatically
run the site audit report errors for you
and then every week it'll tell you if
there's new errors or if you've improved
and give you overall score so that way
you don't have to do any of this
manually
if you enjoyed this video like it share
it if you have any questions leave a
comment below if you want my team to
just do all this for you check out my ad
agency np digital thanks for your time